MOTIVATION FOR THIS PROJECT
===========================
As the volume of our application deployments began to grow in leaps and bounds, our need for more Virtual Machines as Jenkins worker nodes continue to grow to keep pace with fast releases in other to meet customer expectations. From very few VMs, to tens and hundreds of VMs. Different applications requiring different system dependencies to be configured on the worker nodes. The need to constantly patch and maintain the VMs keep taking resources away from core DevOps duties. Let's not even talk about the cost of renting the VMs. We implemented ASG, but it's benefit did not eliminate all the challenges because we still need to keep some VMs running even if there is no running workload. Reason: Our pipeline is automated, developers can commit code at any time, VMs still take some time to spin up, and we don't want anything that will slow down the process.

Another thing that was a motivation was our use of Ansible for CD phase. It works great, but as we all know, Ansibles core strenght is in Configuration Management (CaC). There was still this need to reduce significantly, the need for team member to be freequently making API calls to our Kubernetes Server, by way of deploying applications, modifying applications, etc. With the following issues to consider: 
        1. There are times when it's not usually so easy to find out who made which changes to the kubernetes cluster, even with our RBAC implementation.
		2. The more frequent humans make API calls to the K8s server and any other server for that matter. the more likey it is for the server security to be compromised.
        3. Ansible does not give us a great platform for version control
ArgoCD (GitOps) presents a great opportunity not only to automate the CD process (which Ansible also does), but with ArgoCD, we are able to introduce full version control into the K8s Application Deployment and cluster management. To get the full benefit, declarative approach is promoted, with imperative approach used only when absolutely necessary. ArgoCD became a great tool, using git as the single and only source of truth. Team members are able to collaborate and do peer review of all deployment manifests seamlessly. It will be possible to carryout a full audit trail should there be any need. 

SOLUTION
========
The prospect of exploring the benefits of containerisation was promising. However, it's not always easy to embrace new thinking that will replace a legacy system that still works fine. But somebody must be the one to become that agent of change. The proposal to introduce new changes into our CI-CD pipeline was not a hard pill to sell because, in my organization, Continuous Innovation and Continuous Automation (CI-CA) is not just another fancy word, but one of our core values. You only have to come with a plan, do the POC and demostrate in empirical terms what the benefits and draw backs are. If everybody is sold, all the teams will go to work, to make sure that it succeeds.

Our "Enhanced CI/CD Pipeline with Docker and GitOps (ArgoCD)" project significantly improved efficiency, security, resilience, and cost savings.
We integrated Docker into our Jenkins Pipeline for seamless containerization, enhancing scalability, resource utilization, and consistency. This approach facilitated faster and more reliable software releases by leveraging Docker's lightweight and portable containers.
Full Automation of the CI-CD processes reduced manual intervention, accelerating feature delivery and bug fixes and improved on response time to customer demands and market changes. 
Additionally, the introduction of GitOps (ArgoCD) to the CD phase enabled efficient version control and team collaboration for Kubernetes deployments. This integration streamlined workflows, reduced errors, and ensured consistency and traceability in application configurations.
The benefits of containerization with Docker and GitOps using ArgoCD has great benefits. Containerization provided isolation, improved resource efficiency, and simplified deployment across different CI-CD environments. ArgoCD facilitated declarative Git-based configuration management of deployment files, providing the framework for improved automated and auditable deployments.
As a result of this project's success, our CI/CD pipeline is now highly efficient, secure, resilient, and cost-effective. We have significantly reduced significantly the number of virtual machines running in our pipelines as Jenkins worker nodes, as well as the maintenance of those systems. 
With our optimized pipeline, our teams are now able to focus more on innovation and development, knowing that our software delivery process is streamlined and reliable.

PROJECT LIMITATION
===================
It will be important to point out that during the implementation phase of the above project, we came to reality with an important weekness of using container as a Jenkins worker node. Containers are very suitable for micro services builds but does not have the same benefit for heavy applications like databases. This is because of the light weight nature of our build containers. So we do still maintain few Virtual Machines for our heavy applications. 
